# Building a Simple Todo Application

The goal of this tutorial is to guide you through the process of building a basic Todo application and seamlessly
integrating it with Starlette-Admin. By the end of this tutorial, you will be able to create, read, update, and delete
a Todo model through the admin interface generated by Starlette-Admin. Additionally, you will become familiar with the
basic concepts of Starlette-Admin.

## Project Setup

### Installation

* Create a virtual environment and activate it

=== "macOS/Linux"

    ```shell
    python -m venv env
    source env/bin/activate
    ```

=== "Windows"

    ```shell
    python -m venv env
    env\Scripts\activate
    ```

* Create a `requirements.txt` file with the following content

=== "SQLAlchemy"

    ```requirements
    starlette-admin
    sqlalchemy
    uvicorn
    ```

=== "SQLModel"

    ```requirements
    starlette-admin
    sqlmodel
    uvicorn
    ```

=== "MongoEngine"

    ```requirements
    starlette-admin
    mongoengine
    uvicorn
    ```

=== "ODMantic"

    ```requirements
    starlette-admin
    odmantic
    uvicorn
    ```

??? note

    If you prefer to setup a FastAPI project, add `fastapi` in your requirements file. For example,

    ```requirements
    fastapi
    starlette-admin
    sqlalchemy
    uvicorn
    ```

* Install the dependencies

```shell
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Project structure

    .
    │
    ├── env/                # Virtual environment directory
    ├── main.py             # Main tutorial file
    └── requirements.txt    # File specifying tutorial dependencies

In this tutorial, all code will be contained within the `main.py` file for simplicity. As you progress to real-world
applications, consider organizing your code into modular structures.

## Add the Todo Model

After the project is set up, let's add the todo model on which we will do the CRUD operations.

=== "SQLAlchemy"

    ```requirements
    starlette-admin
    sqlalchemy
    uvicorn
    ```

=== "SQLModel"

    ```requirements
    starlette-admin
    sqlmodel
    uvicorn
    ```

=== "MongoEngine"

    ```requirements
    starlette-admin
    mongoengine
    uvicorn
    ```

=== "ODMantic"

    ```requirements
    starlette-admin
    odmantic
    uvicorn
    ```

Let's take a closer look at the attributes:

- `id (int)`: A unique identifier for each Todo item.
- `title (str)`: The title or description of the Todo item.
- `done (bool)`: A boolean value indicating whether the Todo item is marked as done.
